[DOCU-2920] Changelog for Gateway 3.2 (#5159)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/gateway/changelog.md

<!-- vale off -->

## 3.2.0.0
**Release Date** 2023/02/15

> ### Breaking changes and deprecations

Reviewer: @lena-larionova let's make the Deprecations a separate section, please. Breaking changes are happening now while Deprecations are announcement of future changes.

   
    * The default [`pg_ssl_version`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#postgres-settings)
    is now `tlsv1_2`.
    * Constrained the valid values of this configuration option to only accept the following: `tlsv1_1`, `tlsv1_2`, `tlsv1_3` or `any`.

    This mirrors the setting `ssl_min_protocol_version` in PostgreSQL 12.x and onward. 
    See the [PostgreSQL documentation](https://postgresqlco.nf/doc/en/param/ssl_min_protocol_version/)
    for more information about that parameter.

    To use the default setting in `kong.conf`, verify that your Postgres server supports TLS 1.2 or higher versions, or set the TLS version yourself. 
    TLS versions lower than `tlsv1_2` are already deprecated and considered insecure from PostgreSQL 12.x onward.
  
* Added the [`allow_debug_header`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#allow_debug_header) 
configuration property to `kong.conf` to constrain the `Kong-Debug` header for debugging. This option defaults to `off`.

    If you were previously relying on the `Kong-Debug` header to provide debugging information, set `allow_debug_header: on` to continue doing so.
* Deprecated Alpine Linux images and packages. 
    

>     Alpine images and packages will continue to be available in 3.3. We will stop building Alpine images and packages in Kong Gateway 3.4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Kong is announcing our intent to remove support for Alpine later this year. Alpine images and packages are available in 3.2 and will continue to be available in 3.3. We will stop building Alpine images and packages in Kong Gateway 3.4.
```

  [#10118](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10118)
  
* [**Session**](/hub/kong-inc/session/) (`session`), [OpenID Connect](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/) (`openid-connect`), and [**SAML**](/hub/kong-inc/saml) (`saml`).

  * These plugins now use `lua-resty-session` v4.0.0. 
  
    With this library update, these plugin have new session functionalities, including: configuring audiences to manage multiple sessions in a single cookie, global timeout, and persistent cookies.
    [#10199](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10199)

* [**GraphQL Rate Limiting Advanced**](/hub/kong-inc/graphql-rate-limiting-advanced/) (`graphql-rate-limiting-advanced`) and [**Rate Limiting Advanced**](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/) (`rate-limiting-advanced`)
    * In hybrid and DB-less modes, these plugins now support `sync_rate = -1` with any strategy, including the default `cluster` strategy.

* [**OPA**](/hub/kong-inc/opa/) (`opa`)
    * This plugin can now handle custom messages from the OPA server.

* [**Canary**](/hub/kong-inc/canary/) (`canary`)
    * Added a default value for the `start` field in the canary plugin. 
    If not set, the start time defaults to the current timestamp.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Improved Plugin Documentation**
    * Updated the plugin compatibility information for more clarity on [supported network protocols] (/hub/plugins/compatibility/#protocols) and on [entity scopes](/hub/plugins/compatibility/#scopes) 
    * Revised docs for top plugins to include examples:
      * [CORS](/hub/kong-inc/cors/)
      * [File Log](/hub/kong-inc/file-log/)
      * [HTTP Log](/hub/kong-inc/http-log/)
      * [JWT Signer](/hub/kong-inc/jwt-signer/)
      * [Key Auth](/hub/kong-inc/key-auth/)
      * [OpenID Connect](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/)
      * [Rate Limiting Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/)
      * [SAML](/hub/kong-inc/saml/)
       * [StatsD](/hub/kong-inc/statsd/)
       * [StatsD advanced](/hub/kong-inc/statsd-advanced/)
  
```

  from prior requests.
  [#9787](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9787)
* The Nginx `charset` directive can now be configured with Nginx directive injections.
    Set it in Kong Gateway's configuration with [`nginx_http_charset`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#nginx_http_charset)
    [#10111](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10111)
* The services upstream TLS configuration is now extended to the stream subsystem.
  [#9947](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9947)
* Added the new configuration parameter [`ssl_session_cache_size`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#ssl_session_cache_size), 
which lets you set the Nginx directive `ssl_session_cache`.
  This configuration parameter defaults to `10m`.
  Thanks [Michael Kotten](https://github.com/michbeck100) for contributing this change.
  [#10021](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10021)

#### Enterprise

* Added two debugging endpoints to the Admin API:
    * [`/debug/profiling/cpu`](/gateway/latest/admin-api/#get-state-of-the-cpu-profiling): Instruction-based and timer-based Lua VM CPU profiling.
    * [`/debug/profiling/gc-snapshot`](/gateway/latest/admin-api/#get-the-state-of-gc-snapshot): Lua GC heap snapshot.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The OpenID Connect, Key Authentication - Encrypted, and JWT Signer plugins are now [FIPS 140-2 compliant](/gateway/latest/kong-enterprise/fips-support/). If you are migrating from {{site.base_gateway}} 3.1 to 3.2 in FIPS mode and are using the key-auth-enc plugin, you should send [PATCH or POST requests](/hub/kong-inc/key-auth-enc/#create-a-key) to all existing key-auth-enc credentials to re-hash them in SHA256.
```

    This mirrors the setting `ssl_min_protocol_version` in PostgreSQL 12.x and onward. 
    See the [PostgreSQL documentation](https://postgresqlco.nf/doc/en/param/ssl_min_protocol_version/)
    for more information about that parameter.

    To use the default setting in `kong.conf`, verify that your Postgres server supports TLS 1.2 or higher versions, or set the TLS version yourself. 
    TLS versions lower than `tlsv1_2` are already deprecated and considered insecure from PostgreSQL 12.x onward.
  
* Added the [`allow_debug_header`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#allow_debug_header) 
configuration property to `kong.conf` to constrain the `Kong-Debug` header for debugging. This option defaults to `off`.

    If you were previously relying on the `Kong-Debug` header to provide debugging information, set `allow_debug_header: on` to continue doing so.

* [**JWT plugin**](/hub/kong-inc/jwt/) (`jwt`)
    
    * The JWT plugin now denies any request that has different tokens in the JWT token search locations.
      [#9946](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9946)

> * [**Session plugin**](/hub/kong-inc/session/) (`session`)

Author: ```suggestion
* [**Session**](/hub/kong-inc/session/) (`session`), [**OpenID Connect**](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/) (`openid-connect`), and [**SAML**](/hub/kong-inc/saml) (`saml`) plugins
```

    * For sessions to work as expected in this version, all nodes must run Kong Gateway 3.2.x or later.
    For that reason, we recommend that during upgrades, proxy nodes with mixed versions run for
    as little time as possible. During that time, the invalid sessions could cause failures and partial downtime.
    
        All existing sessions are invalidated when upgrading to this version.
        [#10199](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10199)

### Features

#### Core

> * When `router_flavor` is `traditional_compatible`, Kong Gateway verifies routes created 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* When `router_flavor` is set to`traditional_compatible`, Kong Gateway verifies routes created 
```

* The upstream entity now has a new load balancing algorithm option: [`latency`](/gateway/latest/how-kong-works/load-balancing/#balancing-algorithms).
  This algorithm chooses a target based on the response latency of each target
  from prior requests.
  [#9787](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9787)
* The Nginx `charset` directive can now be configured with Nginx directive injections.
    Set it in Kong Gateway's configuration with [`nginx_http_charset`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#nginx_http_charset)
    [#10111](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10111)
* The services upstream TLS configuration is now extended to the stream subsystem.
  [#9947](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9947)
* Added the new configuration parameter [`ssl_session_cache_size`](/gateway/latest/reference/configuration/#ssl_session_cache_size), 
which lets you set the Nginx directive `ssl_session_cache`.
  This configuration parameter defaults to `10m`.
  
  Thanks [Michael Kotten](https://github.com/michbeck100) for contributing this change.
  [#10021](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10021)

#### Enterprise

* Added two debugging endpoints to the Admin API:

>     * `/debug/profiling/cpu`: Instruction-based and timer-based Lua VM CPU profiling.
>     * `/debug/profiling/gc-snapshot`: Lua GC heap snapshot.

Author: ```suggestion
    * [`/debug/profiling/cpu`](/gateway/latest/admin-api/#get-state-of-the-cpu-profiling): Instruction-based and timer-based Lua VM CPU profiling.
    * [`/debug/profiling/gc-snapshot`](/gateway/latest/admin-api/#get-the-state-of-gc-snapshot): Lua GC heap snapshot.
```

##### Kong Manager

* Improved the editor for expression fields. Any fields using the expression router now have syntax highlighting, autocomplete, and route validation.
* Improved audit logs by adding `rbac_user_name` and `request_source`. 
By combining the data in the new `request_source` field with the `path` field, you can now determine login and logout events from the logs.
* License information can now be copied or downloaded into a file from Kong Manager. 
* Kong Manager now supports the `POST` method for OIDC-based authentication.
* Keys and key sets can now be configured in Kong Manager.
* Optimized the color scheme for `http` method badges.

#### Plugins

* **Plugin entity**: Added an optional `instance_name` field, which identifies a
  particular plugin entity.
  [#10077](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10077)

* [**New plugin: Datadog Tracing**](/hub/kong-inc/datadog-tracing) (`datadog-tracing`)

>   * The Datadog Tracing plugin integrates Kong Gateway with the Datadog Application Performance Monitoring (APM) platform so that proxy requests handled by Kong Gateway can be identified and analyzed in Datadog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * The Datadog Tracing plugin integrates Kong Gateway with the Datadog Application Performance Monitoring (APM) platform so that proxy requests handled by Kong Gateway can be identified and analyzed by Datadog.
```

  [#9891](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9891)

* [**HTTP Log**](/hub/kong-inc/http-log/) (`http-log`)
  * The `headers` configuration parameter is now referenceable, which means it can be securely stored in a vault.
  [#9948](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9948)

* [**AWS Lambda**](/hub/kong-inc/aws-lambda/) (`aws-lambda`)
  * Added the configuration parameter `aws_imds_protocol_version`, which
  lets you select the IMDS protocol version.
  This option defaults to `v1` and can be set to `v2` to enable IMDSv2.
  [#9962](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9962)

* [**OpenTelemetry**](/hub/kong-inc/opentelemetry/) (`opentelemetry`)
  * This plugin can now be scoped to individual services, routes, and consumers.
  [#10096](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10096)

* [**StatsD**](/hub/kong-inc/statsd/) (`statsd`)
  * Added the `tag_style` configuration parameter, which allows the plugin 
  to send metrics with [tags](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter#tagging-extensions).
  The parameter defaults to `nil`, which means that no tags are added to the metrics.
  [#10118](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10118)
  

> * [**Session**](/hub/kong-inc/session/) (`session`), [OpenID Connect](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/) (`openid-connect`), and [**SAML**](/hub/kong-inc/saml) (`saml`).

Author: ```suggestion
* [**Session**](/hub/kong-inc/session/) (`session`), [**OpenID Connect**](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/) (`openid-connect`), and [**SAML**](/hub/kong-inc/saml) (`saml`).
```

  * These plugins now use `lua-resty-session` v4.0.0. 
  
    With this library update, these plugin have new session functionalities, including: configuring audiences to manage multiple sessions in a single cookie, global timeout, and persistent cookies.
    [#10199](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10199)

* [**GraphQL Rate Limiting Advanced**](/hub/kong-inc/graphql-rate-limiting-advanced/) (`graphql-rate-limiting-advanced`) and [**Rate Limiting Advanced**](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/) (`rate-limiting-advanced`)
    * In hybrid and DB-less modes, these plugins now support `sync_rate = -1` with any strategy, including the default `cluster` strategy.

* [**OPA**](/hub/kong-inc/opa/) (`opa`)
    * This plugin can now handle custom messages from the OPA server.

* [**Canary**](/hub/kong-inc/canary/) (`canary`)
    * Added a default value for the `start` field in the canary plugin. 
    If not set, the start time defaults to the current timestamp.
    
    
* **Improved Plugin Documentation**

>     * Updated the plugin compatibility information for more clarity on [supported network protocols](/hub/plugins/compatibility/#protocols) and on [entity scopes](/hub/plugins/compatibility/#scopes) 

Author: ```suggestion
    * Split the plugin compatibility table into a [technical compatibility page](/hub/plugins/compatibility/) and a [license tiers](hub/plugins/license-tiers) page. 
    * Updated the plugin compatibility information for more clarity on [supported network protocols](/hub/plugins/compatibility/#protocols) and on [entity scopes](/hub/plugins/compatibility/#scopes). 
```

>     * Revised docs for top plugins to include examples:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * Revised docs for the following plugins to include examples:
```

      * [CORS](/hub/kong-inc/cors/)
      * [File Log](/hub/kong-inc/file-log/)
      * [HTTP Log](/hub/kong-inc/http-log/)
      * [JWT Signer](/hub/kong-inc/jwt-signer/)
      * [Key Auth](/hub/kong-inc/key-auth/)
      * [OpenID Connect](/hub/kong-inc/openid-connect/)
      * [Rate Limiting Advanced](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/)

>       * [SAML](/hub/kong-inc/saml/)
>        * [StatsD](/hub/kong-inc/statsd/)
>        * [StatsD advanced](/hub/kong-inc/statsd-advanced/)

Author: ```suggestion
      * [SAML](/hub/kong-inc/saml/)
      * [StatsD](/hub/kong-inc/statsd/)
      * [StatsD advanced](/hub/kong-inc/statsd-advanced/)
```

  

### Fixes

#### Core 

* Added back PostgreSQL `FLOOR` function when calculating `ttl`, so the returned `ttl` is always a whole integer.
  [#9960](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9960)
* Exposed PostreSQL connection pool configuration.
  [#9603](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9603)

> * **Nginx template**: Do not add the default charset to the `Content-Type` response header when upstream response doesn't contain it.

Reviewer 3: This one doesn't read like the others, are you telling the reader to not do that?

Author: Missed this one, it's from the OSS changelog. Will rephrase.

> * **Nginx template**: Do not add the default charset to the `Content-Type` response header when upstream response doesn't contain it.

Author: ```suggestion
* **Nginx template**: The default charset is no longer added to the `Content-Type` response header when the upstream response doesn't contain it.
```

  [#9905](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9905)
* Fixed an issue where, after a valid declarative configuration was loaded,
  the configuration hash was incorrectly set to the value `00000000000000000000000000000000`.
  [#9911](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9911)
* Updated the batch queues module so that queues no longer grow without bounds if
  their consumers fail to process the entries. Instead, old batches are now dropped
  and an error is logged.
  [#10247](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10247)
* Fixed an issue where `X-Kong-Upstream-Status` couldn't be emitted when a response was buffered.
  [#10056](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/10056)
* Improved the error message for invalid JWK entries.
  [#9904](https://github.com/Kong/kong/pull/9904)

#### Enterprise

* Fixed an issue where the forward proxy between the data plane and the control plane didn't support telemetry port 8006.
* Fix the PostgreSQL mTLS error `bad client cert type`. 
* Fixed issues with the Admin API's `/licenses` endpoint:
    * The Enterprise license wasn't being picked up by other nodes in a cluster.
    * Vitals routes weren't accessible.
    * Vitals wasn't showing up in hybrid mode.

> ##### Vitals

Author: This is actually under Kong Enterprise.
